---
title: "WIP"
episode: "2"
redirect_from: "2/"
duration_in_seconds: 1
size_in_bytes: 1
size_in_megabytes: 1
---

"Memorize your lists"

### On Today's Show

Mention the twitter account?
Mention Stitcher or RSS?
Mention that iTunes is so slow.
Mention a twitter follower maybe?

We don't really need to memorize because we have phones, but we do a lot of
things we don't need to do. Be awesome and learn how to use your memory.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Workout of the week

NOTES: Maybe copy an interval sound to play in the speakers?

Death by burpees! Remember - your phone probably has a stopwatch. If you want
to use audio queues (which I prefer), then try an interval timer like
[Seconds](http://www.secondsapp.com/).

- [Burpee](http://youtu.be/TX60BcsO_wE)

[**@chrishunt:**](https://twitter.com/chrishunt) 18 + 14

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Example

- Read a list of 10 words
- Play jingle
- If you're average - you can *maybe* remember 4 of those words

### Train your mind's eye

- Our memories are actually pretty amazing, but we don't know how to use
  them.
- You don't need a perfectly photographic memory - you just need to visualize
  some memorable aspect of the thing.
- Imagine does not mean: "Form a perfect image in your mind", it also means
  "to contrive" - it's your little secret.
- Train your mind's eye: Where are you right now? Stare at something in front
  of you for 10 seconds, then close your eyes and try to recall.
- When you're done, open your eyes and fill in the blanks that you had trouble
  visualizing.
- Keep doing this until you have an amazing image in your mind. Practice this.

### The body system (shopping list)

- This is great for instantly memorizing 10 things.
  - Foot
  - Knee
  - Pocket
  - Belly button
  - Chest
  - Shoulder
  - Mouth
  - Nose
  - Hair
  - Hand
- The more exaggerated the better
- blue paint, dog biscuits, newspaper, flashlight, prescription, chicken,
  toothpaste, bananas, shampoo and alarm-clock batteries.

### Next time...

We'll talk about the power of associations and a super easy method to memorize
way more than 10 items: The Link Method.

### Links

- [Dominic O'Brien](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dominic_O'Brien) - World
  memory champion

{% include voicemail.html %}
